# Fields and Methods
Java classes have two primary elements: `methods`, often called functions or procedures in other languages, and `fields`, more generally known as variables.
Together these are called the `members` of the class. Variables hold the state of the program, and methods operate on that state. If the change is important to remember,
a variable stores that change. That's all classes really do. 
---
The simplest Java class you can write looks like this:

```java
1: public class Animal {  
2: }
```

Java calls a word with special meaning a keyword, which we've marked bold in the previous snippet. Line 1 includes the `public` keyword, which allows other classes to use it. The `class` keyword indicates you're defining a class. `Animal` gives the name of the class.

```java
1: public class Animal {  
2:   String name;
3: }
```

On line 2, we define a variable named `name`. We also declare the type of that variable to be `String`. A `String` is a value that we can put text into, such as "this is a string". `String` is also a class supplied with Java.

```java
1: public class Animal {  
2:   String name;
3:   public String getName() {
4:     return name;
5:   }
6:   public void setName(String newName) {
7:     name = newName;
8:   }
9: }
```

On lines 3-5, we define a method. A method is an operation that can be called. Again, `public` is used to signify that this method may be called from other classes. Next comes the return type - in this case, the method returns a `String`. On lines 6-8 is another method. This one has a special return type called `void`. The `void` keyword means that no value at all is returned. This method requires that information be supplied to it from the calling method; this information is called a `parameter`. The setName() method has one parameter named `newName`, and it is of type `String`. This means the caller should pass in one `String` parameter and expect nothing to be returned.
