# Writing a _main()_ Method  
A Java program begins execution with its `main()` method. The **main()** method is often called an entry point into the program, because it is the starting point that the **JVM** looks for when it begins running a new program.

## Creating a _main()_ Method
The **main()** method lets the JVM call our code. The simplest possible class with **main()** method looks like this:
```java
1: public class Zoo {
2:   public static void main(String[] args) {
3:     System.out.println("Hello World");
4:   }
5: }
```
This code prints **Hello World**. To compile and execute this code, type it into a file called Zoo.java and execute the following:
```cmd
javac Zoo.java
java Zoo
```
If it prints **Hello World**, you were successful. If you do get error messages, check that you've installed the Java 21 JDK, that you have added it to the PATH, and that you did not make any types in the example.

To compile Java code with the **javac** command, the file must have the extension `.java`. The name of the file must match the name of the `public` class. The result is a file of bytecode with the same name but with a `.class` filename extension. Remember that bytecode consists of instructions that the JVM knows how to execute. Notice that we must omit the `.class` extension to run **Zoo.class**.  

  The rules for what a Java file contains, and in what order, are more detailed than what we have explained so far. To keep things simple for now, we follow this subset of the rules:
  - Each file can contain only one `public` class.
  - The filename must match the class name, including case, and have a `.java` extension.
  - If the Java class is an entry point for the program, it must contain a valid `main()` method.
---
Let's first review the words in the `main() method's signature`, one at a time. 
- The keyword `public` is what's called an `access modifier`. It declares this method's level of exposure to potential callers in the program. Naturally, `public` means full access from anywhere in the program.

- The keyword `static` binds a method to its class so it can be called by just the class name, as in, for example, `Zoo.main()`. Java does not need to create an object to call the `main()` method - which is good since you have not learned about creating objects yet! In fact, the JVM does this, more or less, when loading the class name given to it. If a `main()` method does not have the right keywords, you'll get an error trying to run it.

- The keyword `void` represents the _return type_. A method that returns no data returns control to the caller silently. In general, it's good practice to use `void` for methods that change an object's state. In that sense, `main()` method changes the program state from started to finished.

- Finally, we arrive at the `main() method's parameter list`, represented as an array of _java.lang.String objects_. You can use any valid variable name along with any of these three formats:
  - String[] args
  - String options[]
  - String... friends 
 The compiler accepts any of these. The variable name `args` is common because it hints that this list contains values that were read in (arguments) when the JVM started. The charactors `[]` are baskets and represent an array. An array is a fixed-size list of items that are all of the same type. The characters `...` are called `varargs`(variable argument lists).
