# Naming Conflicts
One of the reasons for using packages is so that class name don't have to be unique across all of Java. This means you'll sometimes want to `import` a class that can be found in multiple places. A common example of this is the `Date` class. Java provides implementations of `java.util.Date` and `java.sql.Date`. What `import` statement can we use if we want the `java.util.Date` version?
```java
public class Conflicts {
  Date date;
  // some more code
}
```
The answer should be easy by now. You can write either `import java.util.*;` or `import java.util.Date;`. The tricky cases come about when other imports are present.
```java
import java.util.*;
import java.sql.*; // cause Date declaration to not compile
```
When the class name is found in multiple packages, Java gives you a compiler error. In our example, the solution is easy - remove the `import java.sql.*` that we don't need. But what do we do if we need a whole pile of other classes in the `java.sql` package?
```java
import java.util.Date;
import java.sql.*;
```
Ah, now it works! If you explicitly import a class name, it takes precedence over any wildcards present. Java thanks, "The programmer really wants me to assume use of the `java.util.Date class`."
  
One more example. What does Java do with "ties" for precedence?
```java
import java.util.Date;
import java.sql.Date;
```
Java is smart enough to detect that this code is no good. As a programmer, you've claimed to explicitly want the default to be both the `java.util.Date` and `java.sql.Date` implementations. Because there can't be two defaults, the compiler tells you the imports are ambiguous.

- - -

## If You Really Need to Use Two Classes with the Same Name
Sometimes you really do want to use `Date` from two different packages. When this happens, you can pick one to use in the `import` statements and always use the fully qualified class name.
```java
public class Conflicts {
  java.util.Date date;
  java.sql.Date sqlDate;
}
```
