# Creating Objects
Our programs wouldn't be able to do anything useful if we didn't have the ability to create new objects. Remember that an object is an instance of a classs. In the following sections, we look at constructors, object fields, instance initializers, and the order in which values are initialized.

## Calling Constructors
To create an instance of a class, all you have to do is write `new` before the class name and add parentheses after it. Here's an example:
```java
Park p = new Park();
```
First you declare the type that you'll be creating(`Park`) and give the variable a name(`p`). This gives Java a place to store a reference to the object. Then you write `new Park()` to actually create the object.  
`Park()` looks like a method since it is followed by parentheses. It's called a `constructor`, which is a special type of method that creates a new object. Now it's time to define a constructor of your own.
```java
public class Chick {
  public Chick() {
    System.out.println("in constructor");
  }
}
```
> There are two key points to note about the constructor:
> - the name of the constructor matches the name of the class;
> - there's no return type.

You may see a method like this on the exam:
```java
public class Chick {
  public void Chick() { }  // NOT A CONSTRUCTOR
}
```
When you see a method name beginning with a capital letter and having a return type, pay special attention to it. It is _not_ a constructor since there's a return type. It's a regular method that does compile but will not be called when you write `new Chick()`.

The purpose of a constructor is to initialize fields, although you can put any code in there. Another way to initialize fields is to do so directly on the line on which they're declared. This  example shows both approaches:
```java
public class Chicken {
  int numEggs = 12;
  String name;
  public Chicken() {
    name = "Duke";  //
  }
}
```
